MODULE I: INTRODUCTION TO CYBERSECURITY
	this module aims to help understand the growing need for cybersecurity.
	Faced with an unprecedented surge in cyber attacks, never before has the demand for cybersecurity professionals been so high.
	Find out more about what cybercriminals want and what to do to ensure that a cyber threat never becomes a reality.

	The World of CyberSecurity

		What is Cybersecurity
			It is the ongoing effort to protect individuals, organizations and governments from digital attacks by protecting networked systems and data from unauthorized use or harm.

			On a personal level, one needs to safeguard their identity, data, and computing devices.
			At an organizational level, it is everyone's responsibility to protect the organization's reputation, data and customers.
			As more as digital information is being gathered and shared, its protection becomes even more vital at the government level, where national security, economic stability and the safety and wellbeing of citizens are at stake.

		Protecting Personal Data
			Personal data is any information that can be used to identify someone, and it can exist both offline and onine.

			Offline identity
				is the real-life persona that is presented on a daily basis at home, at school or at work.
				As a result, family and friends know details about one's personal life, including full name, age and address.

				It is important to overlook the importance of securing offline identity because identity thieves can easily steal data.

			Online identity
				is not just a name, it is who one is and how they present themselves to others online.
				It includes the username or alias used for online accounts, as well as the social identity established and portrayed on online communities and websites.
				Take care to limit the amount of personal information revealed through online identity.

				Many people think that if they do not have any social media or online accounts set up, then they do not have an online identity. This is not the case, if one uses the web, they have an online identity.

		Data
			Personal data describes any information including name, social security number, driver license number, date and place of birth, mother's maiden name, and even pictures or messages that are exchanged with family and friends.

			Cybercriminals can use this sensitive information to identify and impersonate someone, infringing on their privacy and potentially causing serious damage to their reputation.

			Medical records (
				Personal information regarding physical and mental health and wellbeing is added to electronic health records, EHRs, when visiting the doctor.
				Since the majority of these records are saved online, there is need to be aware of the information that is shared.
				And these records go beyond the bound of the doctor's office. For example, many fitness trackers collect large amounts of clinical data such as heart rate, blood pressure and blood sugar levels, which is transferred, stored and displayed via the cloud. Therefore, consider this data to be part of medical records
			)
			Education records (
				Educational records contain information about academic qualifications and achievements. However, these records may also include contact information, attendance records, disciplinary reports, health and immunization records as well as any special education records including individualized education programs, IEPs
			)
			Employment and financial records (
				Employment data can be valuable to hackers if they can gather information on past employment, or even current performance reviews.
				Financial record may include information about income and expenditure. Tax records may include paychecks, credit cards statements, credit rating and bank account details. All of this data, if not safeguarded properly, can compromise privacy and enable cybercriminals to use it for their own gain.
			)

		Where Is Your Data ?
			This has got you thinking. Only yesterday, you shared a couple of photos of your first day on the job with a few of your close friends.
			You took some photos at work on your mobile phone. Copies of these photos are now available on your mobile device.
			You shared these with five close friends, who live in various locations across the world.
			All of your friends downloaded the photos and now have copies of your photos on their devices.
			One of your friends was so proud that they decided to post and share your photos online. The photos are no longer just on device. They have in fact ended up on servers located in different part of the world and people whom you do not even know now have access to your photos.

			This is just one example that reminds us that every time we collect or share personal data, we should consider our security. There are different laws that protect your privacy and data in your country. But do you know where your data is ?

			Following an appointment, the doctor will update your medical record. For billing purposes, this information may be shared with the insurance company. In such cases, your medical record, or part of it, is now accessible at at the insurance company.

			Store loyalty cards may be convenient to save money on your purchases. However, the store is using this card to build a profile of your purchasing behavior, which it can then use to target you with special offers from its marketing partners.

		Smart Devices
			Consider how often you use your computing devices to access your personal data. Unless you have chosen to receive paper statements, you probably access digital copies of bank account statements via your bank's website. And when paying a bill, it is highly likely that you have transferred the required funds via a mobile banking application.
			But besides allowing you to access your information, computing devices can now also generate information about you.
			Wearable technologies such as smart watches and activity trackers collect data for clinical research, patient health monitoring, and fitness and wellbeing tracking. As the global fitness tracker market grows, so also does the risk to personal data.
			It might seem that information available online is free. But is privacy the price we pay for this digital convenience ?
			For example, social media companies generate the majority of their income bey selling targeted advertising based on customer data that has been mined using algorithms or formulas. Of course, these companies will argue that they are not selling customer data, but sharing customer data with their marketing partners.

		What Do Hackers Want ?
			With all this information about you available online, what do hackers want ? Of course, they want your money.
			Can you think of an an example that you have experienced yourself or that you have heard or read about, where cybercriminals have accessed or tried to access financial information online ?
			A cybercriminal can take advantage of your relationships, accessing your online accounts and appealing to your good nature to try and trick you into wiring money to you friends or family in a time of need.
			For example, there have been many reported cases of hackers impersonating family members and sending messages stating that they need money wired in order to get home from abroad after losing their wallets.
			And while you may think that your frequent flyer air miles are not valuable to cybercriminals, think again. In 2015, cybercriminals hacked approximately 10,000 American Airlines and United accounts, booking free flights and upgrades using stolen credentials. Even though the frequen flyer miles were returned to the customers by the airlines. this example demonstrates the value of login credentials.
			Cybercriminals are certainly very imaginative when it comes to gaining access to your money. But that is not all they are after; they could also steal your identity and ruin your life.

		Identity theft
			Not content with stealing your money for short-term financial gain, cybercriminals are invested in the long-term gain of identity theft.

			Medical theft
				Rising medical costs have led to an increase in medical identity theft, with cybercriminals stealing medical insurance to use the benefits for themselves. Where this happens, any medical procedures carried out in your name will then be saved in your medical records.

			Banking
				Stealing private data can help cybercriminals access bank accounts, credit cards, social profiles and other online accounts. Armed with this information, on identity thief could file a fake tax return and collect the refund. They could even take out loans in your name and ruin your credit rating and your life as well.

		Who Else Wants Your Data ?
			It is not just criminals who seek your personal data.

			Your Internet service provider (ISP)
				ISP tracks online activity, and in some countries, they can sell this data to advertisers for a profit.
				In certain circumstances, ISPs may be legally required to share information with government surveillance agencies or authorities.

			Advertisers
				Targeted advertising is part of the Internet experience.
				Advertisers monitor and track online activities such as shopping habits and personal preferences and send targeted ads.

			Search engines and social media platforms
				These platforms gather information about gender, geolocation, phone number and political and religious ideologies based on search histories and online identity. This information is then sold to advertisers for a profit.

			Websites visited
				Websites use cookies to track activities in order to provide a more personalized experience. But this leaves a data trail that is linked to online identity that can often end up in the hands of advertisers.


	Organizational Data

		It is obvious that cybercriminals are becoming more sophisticated in their pursuit of valuable personal data. But they also pose a huge threat to organizational data.
		Before starting to implement best practices to safeguard organizational data, first know what it is.
		In organizations like eLearning company @Apollo, there are two main types of data to be aware of.

		Types of Organizational Data

			Traditional Data
				Traditional data is typically generated and maintained by all organizations, big and small.
				It includes the following:
					* Transactional data such as details relating to buying and selling, production activities and basic organizational operations such as any information used to make employment decisions.

					* Intellectual property such as patents, trademarks and new product plans, which allows an organization to gain economic advantage over its competitors.
					This information is often considered a trade secret and losing it could prove disastrous for the future of a company.

					* Financial data such as income statements, balance sheets and cash flow statements, which provide insight into the health of a company.

			